# Our Values

Here at The Data Shed, we have 5 core values to help support our vision, shape
our culture and reflect our identity.

Below are the 5 Shed values:

- Always seek value
- Share the knowledge
- Know your audience
- Take care of the fundamentals
- Treat people right

Ace, now you know what the 5 values are, but what do they mean?

## The Data Shed Values Explained

### Always seek value

Why am I doing this? What value does what I am doing drive? Simple questions
that are easy to forget when you're busy. If someone hasn't asked for it you
need a good reason why you're doing it.

### Share the knowledge

Sharing knowledge helps everyone; if you're in a silo you can't help anyone or
be helped. We get to play and work with some amazing tech (and if you're not
technical, you get to learn why it's amazing); when we share that knowledge we
all improve.

### Know your audience

Like presenting? Don't like presenting? Work with code? Don't work with code? We
all have different skills and different levels of understanding. When we
recognise this and work with it we can drive greater understanding across teams
and projects.

### Take care of the fundamentals

Get the basics right & check your work. Test it, proof read it; help each other
to get it right. When the foundations are rock solid you can build anything.
Remember: make it right; then make it fast. And take care of the coffee machine.

### Treat people right

It's more than just 'treat people as you want to be treated', how do they want
to be treated? Know your fellow Shedders; collaborate with and support them and
The Data Shed to continuously improve. Make The Data Shed a great place to be!

## How does this affect me?

We want The Data Shed to be a great place to be as well as providing value to
our clients. Now you know The Data Shed values, think about how you can
implement them in your day to day work.

## What is a "Shedder"?

A "**Shedder**" is someone who works at The Data Shed, part of our great team of
people who help to make the The Data Shed the place it is. "Shedders" should
embody the 5 Data Shed values and try to find ways to demonstrate them in their
day to day roles.

## Culture

Us Shedders are a curious and supportive bunch. The Data Shed provides both
technical and nontechnical roles and we strive to develop people in areas that
interest them to help them succeed in their chosen career. If you're joining The
Data Shed, you should expect lots of pair programming and constructive feedback,
both of which form part of our Learning and Development framework.

At The Data Shed, we want to create, promote and sustain a friendly and
supportive culture where people feel included and valued.

## Diversity and Inclusion

Like many other organisations we recognise the importance diversity plays in
creating a successful, balanced, and fair organisation which is why The Data
Shed prides itself on having an inclusive culture. We regularly collect feedback
from the people who keep the wheels turning and make sure everyone knows that
their opinions and values are respected.

The Data Shed are an equal opportunities employer, and we know how important it
is to have a good work-life balance. We do our best to allow every member of the
team a working pattern that suits them, whether that's being around for school
pickups or taking a longer lunch to walk the dog. As long as your team and
clients have been considered then we're confident in our approach to treat
everyone like adults, with wellbeing as a priority.

## Shedder Awards üèÜ

Each year, the Shedder Awards are held. Individuals are nominated by other
shedders to receive an award relating to one of the Shed values.

If a person consistently demonstrates all 5 values throughout the year, they
could be crowned "**Shedder of the year**"; a very prestigious title indeed!
