# Senior Data Engineer

## Responsibilities

### Autonomy

Works under general direction within a clear framework of accountability.
Exercises substantial personal responsibility and autonomy. Uses substantial
discretion in identifying and responding to complex issues and assignments as
they relate to the deliverable/scope of work. Escalates when issues fall
outside their framework of accountability. Plans, schedules and monitors work
to meet given objectives and processes to time and quality targets.

### Influence

Influences customers, suppliers and partners at account level. Makes decisions
which influence the success of projects and team objectives. May have some
responsibility for the work of others and for the allocation of resources.
Engages with and contributes to the work of cross-functional teams to ensure
that customers and user needs are being met throughout the deliverable/scope of
work. Facilitates collaboration between stakeholders who share common
objectives. Participates in external activities related to own specialism.

### Complexity

Work includes a broad range of complex technical or professional activities, in
a variety of contexts. Investigates, defines and resolves complex issues.
Applies, facilitates and develops creative thinking concepts or finds
innovative ways to approach a deliverable.

### Business skills

Communicates fluently, orally and in writing, and can present complex
information to both technical and non-technical audiences when engaging with
colleagues, users/customers, suppliers and partners.

Selects appropriately from, and assesses the impact of change to applicable
standards, methods, tools, applications and processes relevant to own specialism.

Demonstrates an awareness of risk and takes an analytical approach to work.

Maximises the capabilities of applications for their role and evaluates and
supports the use of new technologies and digital tools.

Contributes specialist expertise to requirements definition in support of
proposals.

Shares knowledge and experience in own specialism to help others.

Learning and professional development —  maintains an awareness of developing
practices and their application and takes responsibility for driving own
development. Takes the initiative in identifying and negotiating their own and
supporting team members' appropriate development opportunities. Contributes to
the development of others.

Security, privacy and ethics — fully understands the importance and application
to own work and the operation of the organisation. Engages or works with
specialists as necessary.

### Knowledge

Has a thorough understanding of recognised generic industry bodies of knowledge
and specialist bodies of knowledge as necessary. Has gained a thorough
knowledge of the domain of the organisation. Is able to apply the knowledge
effectively in unfamiliar situations and actively maintains own knowledge and
shares with others. Rapidly absorbs and critically assesses new information and
applies it effectively.

## Skills

### Core

#### Data engineering: Level 4 [DENG]

Designs, implements, and maintains complex data engineering solutions to
acquire and prepare data.

Creates and maintains data pipelines to connect data within and between data
stores, applications and organisations.

Carries out complex data quality checking and remediation.

#### Programming/software development: Level 4 [PROG]

Designs, codes, verifies, tests, documents, amends and refactors complex
programs/scripts and integration software services.

Contributes to the selection of the software development methods, tools and
techniques.

Applies agreed standards and tools to achieve well-engineered outcomes.

Participates in reviews of own work and leads reviews of colleagues' work.

#### Testing: Level 4 [TEST]

Selects appropriate testing approach, including manual and automated testing.

Develops and executes test plans and test cases. Implements scalable and
reliable automated tests and frameworks.

Collaborates across parties involved in product, systems or service design and
development to enable comprehensive test coverage. Identifies improvements in
requirements, design or specification processes to increase the effectiveness
and efficiency of testing.

Analyses and reports on test activities, results, issues and risks, including
the work of others.

### Release and deployment: Level 4 [RELM]

Assesses and analyses release components for input to release scheduling.

Maintains and administers tools and methods for software delivery, deployment
and configuration.

Maintains release processes and procedures.

### IT infrastructure: Level 3 [ITOP]

Provides technical expertise to enable the correct application of operational
procedures.

Contributes to the planning and implementation of infrastructure maintenance
and updates. Implements agreed infrastructure changes and maintenance routines.

Uses infrastructure management tools to determine load and performance
statistics. Configures tools and/or creates scripts to automate the
provisioning, testing and deployment of new and changed infrastructure.
Maintains operational procedures and checks that they are executed following
agreed standards.

Investigates and enables the resolution of operational issues. Provides reports
and proposals for improvement, to specialists, users and managers.

### Data Maturity

#### Data science: Level 4 [DATS]

Investigates the described problem and dataset to assess the usefulness of data
science and analytics solutions.

Applies a range of data science techniques and uses specialised programming
languages. Understands and applies rules and guidelines specific to the
industry, and anticipates risks and other implications of modelling.

Selects, acquires and integrates data for analysis. Develops data hypotheses
and methods and evaluates analytics models. Advises on the effectiveness of
specific techniques based on project findings and comprehensive research.

Contributes to the development, evaluation, monitoring and deployment of data
science solutions.

#### Business intelligence: Level 4 [BINT]

Supports business intelligence needs of specific management or governance
processes or operational areas.

Investigates the need for business intelligence reporting and analysis where
there is some complexity and ambiguity.

Selects and applies non-standard business intelligence tools and techniques to
provide insights and aid decision-making. Selects, acquires and integrates data
for analysis.

Identifies opportunities to digitise and streamline operational data handling
and optimise business intelligence capabilities.

#### Machine learning: Level 4 [MLNG]

Given a well-described problem and dataset, assesses whether machine learning
is likely to provide an effective solution.

Implements algorithms developed by others. Advises on the effectiveness of
specific techniques, based on project findings and wider research.

Contributes to the development, evaluation, monitoring and deployment of
machine learning systems.

Understands and applies rules and guidelines specific to the industry, and
anticipates risks and other implications of modelling.

### Engineering Maturity

#### Systems and software life cycle engineering: Level 4 [SLEN]

Elicits requirements for systems and software life cycle working practices and
automation.

Prepares design options for the working environment of methods, procedures,
techniques, tools, and people.

Selects systems and software life cycle working practices for software
components and micro-services.

Deploys automation to achieve well-engineered and secure outcomes.

#### Systems integration and build: Level 4 [SINT]

Provides technical expertise to enable the configuration of system components
and equipment for systems testing.

Collaborates with technical teams to develop and agree system integration plans
and report on progress. Defines complex/new integration builds. Ensures that
integration test environments are correctly configured.

Designs, performs and reports results of tests of the integration build.
Identifies and documents system integration components for recording in the
configuration management system.

Recommends and implements improvements to processes and tools.

#### Database design: Level 4 [DBDS]

Implements physical database designs to support transactional data requirements
for performance and availability.

Develops and maintains specialist knowledge of database and data warehouse
concepts, design principles, architectures, software and facilities.

Assesses proposed changes to object/data structures and evaluates alternative
options.

Implements data warehouse designs that support demands for business
intelligence and data analytics.

#### Acceptance testing: Level 4 [BPTS]

Develops acceptance criteria related to functional and non-functional
requirements, business processes, features, user stories and business rules.

Designs, specifies and executes test cases and scenarios to test that systems,
products and services fulfil the acceptance criteria and deliver the predicted
business benefits.

Collaborates with project colleagues and stakeholders involved in the analysis,
development and operation of products, systems or services to ensure accuracy
and comprehensive test coverage.

Analyses and reports on test activities, results, issues and risks including
the work of others.
