# Technical Operations Data Engineer

## Responsibilities

### Autonomy

Works under routine direction. Uses limited discretion in resolving issues or
enquiries. Determines when to seek guidance in unexpected situations. Plans own
work within short time horizons.

### Influence

Interacts with and may influence immediate colleagues. May have some external
contact with customers, suppliers and partners. Aware of need to collaborate
with team and represent users/customer needs.

### Complexity

Performs a range of work activities in varied environments. May contribute to
routine issue resolution. May apply creative thinking or suggest new ways to
approach a task.

### Business skills

Has sufficient oral and written communication skills for effective engagement
with colleagues and internal users/customers.

Understands and uses appropriate methods, tools, applications and processes.

Demonstrates a rational and organised approach to work.

Has sufficient digital skills for their role.

Learning and professional development — identifies and negotiates own
development opportunities.

Security, privacy and ethics — is fully aware of organisational standards. Uses
appropriate working practices in own work.

### Knowledge

Has gained a basic domain knowledge. Demonstrates application of essential
generic knowledge typically found in industry bodies of knowledge. Absorbs new
information when it is presented systematically and applies it effectively.

## Skills

### Application support: Level 2 [ASUP]

Assists with specified maintenance procedures.

Assists in the investigation and resolution of issues relating to applications.

### Network support: Level 2 [NTAS]

Contributes to the operational configuration of network components.

Assists in the investigation and resolution of network problems.

Assists with specified maintenance procedures.

### Customer service support: Level 2 [CSMG]

Responds to common requests for service by providing information to enable
fulfilment.

Promptly allocates unresolved calls as appropriate.

Maintains records, informs users about the process and advises relevant persons
of actions taken.

### Database administration: Level 2 [DBAD]

Assists in database support activities.

### Programming/software development: Level 2 [PROG]

Designs, codes, verifies, tests, documents, amends and refactors simple
programs/scripts.

Applies agreed standards and tools to achieve a well-engineered result.

Reviews own work.

### Testing: Level 2 [TEST]

Designs test cases, creates test scripts and test data, and automates
repeatable tasks working to the requirements or specifications provided.

Defines test conditions for given requirements.

Executes and records manual and automated testing in accordance with test plans.

Analyses and reports on test activities, results, issues and risks.

### Incident management: Level 2 [USUP]

Follows agreed procedures to identify, register and categorise incidents.

Gathers information to enable incident resolution and allocates incidents as
appropriate.

### IT infrastructure: Level 2 [ITOP]

Carries out routine operational procedures, including the execution of
specified automation tools/scripts.

Amends existing automation tasks under supervision to gain a basic
understanding of the scripting language/automation tools.

Contributes to maintenance and installation. Monitors and reports on
infrastructure performance to enable service delivery. Resolves issues or
refers to others for assistance.

### Content authoring: Level 2 [INCA]

Works with colleagues and clients to understand audience needs and to
assimilate source material.

Creates draft content to meet the requirements of the audience as clearly,
simply and quickly as possible.

Applies guidelines and standards to moderate content from others, escalating
where appropriate.
